my dog died at 18 after living with me for 17 years. I head off to the Minnesota north woods to lick my wounds. When she first came to live with us she would howl beside me as I played certain taut sounds on my cello. Perhaps she thought that people needed tools ::: pine resin soaked horse hair bow across wire across a wooden voice box to howl. The tool people. 

After she died I learned how to howl ::: felt a keening ::: in my sinew in the flesh that clings to bone across the resonator skeletal chest cavity rising from the heart or gut or empty hands  coursing through me bloody circulation. An untethered body in the vast sky ::: the dome of night that blanched and naked day. The word "mine" my other being. A word so extractive possesive ::: draw from the very marrow of this other shadow companion a belonging.

What does it mean to think without hands? Or without prosthetics pinned to bone fused to shoulder sockets physical extension intension a body being transformed but still grounded in an "i" ::: a physical cogitation a rhythmic thought weaving built on pulse or stride or breath. Messy ragged noisy reception tuned to sensory perception drawn from deep time coded memory swallowed and woven into a thick arduous now.

I am writing this from a boardwalk into the big og in northern MN near Upper Red Lake. An interpretive sign talks about the arduous process of photosynthesis life transfer of nutrients a slow churning circulation hard won cellular building. One black spruce from here with a 2 inch diameter trunk has tree rings revealing an age of 127 years when it died. Slow growth slow building.

I arrived here fast on a road that cuts through the 500 sq mile(?) bog. Many roads & homesteads fought to make this land "productive" by cutting channels to drain the soaked acidic nutrient-poor soils. Many failed. There were natural backbone paths that rose from a glacial history which people more adept at finding pathways used to navigate this bog in a slower traversal. There are also waterways to travel around and through this region. The land is slow to "produce" but it does support a rich ecological history in its own slow manner. The slow evolution of site perhaps allowed for a time scale of adaptation of weaving together of living beings and mineral geologies hydrologies.

Messy muddy scrubby "wasteland." That is what this type of landscape was called when I was growing up ("Fill Wanted!"). Fill the hollow alienation.

Caribou once roamed these parts. A favorite Math professor of mine had a side passion of trying to restore caribou to their historic homelands. I studied a graduate-level class called "real Analysis" with him. Day after day we would work through proofs together ::: climbing over the historic building blocks of modern mathematics. Arduous scrawls on the chalk boarrd / cross outs / chalky erasures. Slow show your thoughts symbol by symbol by therefore & ladders ::: a chain of reasoning that was perilous ::: one wrong move could cause a collapse. We clambored over concepts and built new concepts on assemblages of proven concepts. Recipes of sub ingredients sub particles joing to vibrate into life. Glorious Ah-ha moments of luminous insight that clouded over with a new application that troubled the waters ::: added complexity noise. There was a joy in building intuition elegance of thought beautiful connections webs lattice of ideas & tools. The entire body gut to synapse to hand to language ::: a symbology of figuring frictions resonance echo. Systems landscapes maps. I studied theoretical ecology ::: modeling the systems of ecologies. The contours distilled the variables tested ::: is this important? how does the whole shift if I perturb the part?

One of the underlying values is transparancy of assumptions simplifications things left out for a test model system to try to pull out critical structural elements ::: primary actors ::: critical junctures ::: pivot points that tip a system. Multivariate topologies. 
Externalization tools thought desire
flattened into consumption targets ::: a  vortex of consumption spinning faster by the second.

Sensory appendages for the LLM machine moloch

quote from howl?

plein aire coding
system velocity pattern (photo)synthesis drawing water flow pulling rain
conjuring hex
seeding generating algorithmic mill
text work code work machine work

moments of clarity the fog clears the mist thins & a blade of grass is illuminated in the meadow

a focal point amidst the green din

laying beside the cannon river

velocity for what reason

the zoom
local neighborhood
the near far of your defining
a moment a focal point a compass followed by foot
 a harness that holds you in your loca;l coordinates your axes of knowing of wayfinding a lattice a web of relational thinking a ladder steps examined by foot by hand by arms length.
 a practice of holding more than two things at once more than one positioning coordinate systems at once ::: an awareness of self of history of position of possibilities of frictions and echo of longing
of longing based in the body|mind not in the quick addictive parrot pecking behavioral rewards hits mirage of need (externalized want factory) ::: the perverting of desire by market churn ::: the gnashing of capitalism's teeth ::: becoming fodder shaped by propoganda's cheap individualised consumption "style"

life force fodder
stuck

duende ::: vortex of longing
creative forces

rootedness where?
tethered where?

body why?

complexity of products on shelves
a pale replicate of the
complexity of natural variance
turning an infinity of edge-space variance
of human axes of meaning self vibrant existence
into a very large but finite set of flattened "choices" defined by a few proprietary gods of industry
hawking their goods to mechanized eyeballs
& finger-trigger buy buttons

talking to machines ::: old-school code
text as encoding an imperfect symbology
to attempts at saying something
messy scrawled scratched out uttered
silence stuttered gestured 

the death of a tree
a long reinous groan
then heavy mass through air 
thud to ground
through tangled branches of neighbor
trees shrubs mossy landing

back to minerals and carbon

my own death will leave an exoskeletan of
plastics a mound of

